---
title: Workshop Agenda
weight: 10
---

## 1. Introduction

The goal of this workshop is to make you familiar with the Splunk Observability Suite and its key features. For this we have provided you with a complete application that includes a Website and a number of back end services  that make up the complete application.

During this workshop you will experience issues with this application. The goal of this exercise is to use several of the key features from the Splunk observability suite to detect the issue, locate the cause of the issue, allowing your development teams to very quickly resolve the issue.

---

## 2. A quick tour of the Splunk Observability User Interface (introduce Splunk IM)

To make finding your way in the Splunk Observability suite User interface, We will take you on a quick tour that will give you the highlights and is designed to make the rest of the workshop simpler as you are already familiar with the locations of various components.

---

## 3. Using the Online Boutique Website to create traffic

The next step in the workshop is to use the Web ui of the application we provided, We wil ask you to run several scenario's, and if possible repeat some of the actions on an other device, something like a mobile phone for example.

This will generate traffic across our application and with that traffic comes the Open Telemetry signals, Metrics, Traces and logs,  that we can use to find and identify the cause of the underlying issues.

---

## 4. Splunk Real User Monitoring

During this session we will examine the Real User data that has been provided by the telemetry received from end user browser sessions. The goal is to find and identify the activity you created with your own browser, and if possible from a different device like a mobile phone. This will show you some of the issues you can detect with Splunk RUM. It will also show you how we can follow interactions from the frontend to the underlying functions in the back end services.

---

## 5. Splunk Application Performance Monitoring

Following on from finishing the RUM session, we will follow the route the requests have taken through the underlying backend services. For this we will use Application Performance Monitoring or APM, all the services are sending telemetry (traces and spans) that the Splunk observability suite can visualise, analyze and use to detect anomalies and errors.

In this session we show you several ways to find and detect errors manually or with the support of our smart Analytics.

---

## 6. Using Logs with Splunk Log Observer

Generally, you use metrics and traces to detect and identify an issue, and use logs with a much richer information pool, to identify the why, or the cause of the issue.  Within this section we will examine the functionality of Log observer, our gateway in the logs generated by our applications.

---

## 7. Splunk Synthetics

The next step is is to make sure we do not rely on manual testing of our application, and we will look at how you can create  tests that can keep track of the performance and behaviour of your application that can run 24/7 from different location.

We also look into how these test can alert you when there is a deviation in behaviour of your site.

---

## 8. Wrapping up

Last but not least we will show some of the other features that are helpful in finding problems before closing the session.
