---
title: 1.1 Validation & Load Generation
linkTitle: 1.1 Validation & Load Generation
weight: 1
---

In this workshop, we’ll use [**https://otelbin.io**](https://otelbin.io/) to quickly validate YAML syntax and ensure your OpenTelemetry configurations are accurate. This step helps avoid errors before running tests during the session.

{{% notice title="Exercise" style="green" icon="running" %}}
Here’s how to validate your configuration:

1. Open [**https://otelbin.io**](https://otelbin.io/) and replace the existing configuration by pasting your YAML into the left pane.
    > [!INFO]
    > If are on a Mac and **not** using a Splunk Workshop instance, you can quickly copy the contents of the `agent.yaml` file to your clipboard by running the following command:
    >
    > ```bash
    > cat agent.yaml | pbcopy
    > ```

2. At the top of the page, make sure **Splunk OpenTelemetry Collector** is selected as the validation target. If you **don't** select this option, then you will see warnings in the UI stating `Receiver "hostmetrics" is unused. (Line 8)`.

3. Once validated, refer to the image representation below to confirm your pipelines are set up correctly.

In most cases, we’ll display only the **key pipeline**. However, if all three pipelines (Traces, Metrics, and Logs) share the same structure, we’ll note this instead of showing each one individually.

```mermaid
%%{init:{"fontFamily":"monospace"}}%%
graph LR
    %% Nodes
      REC1(&nbsp;&nbsp;otlp&nbsp;&nbsp;<br>fa:fa-download):::receiver
      PRO1(memory_limiter<br>fa:fa-microchip):::processor
      PRO2(resourcedetection<br>fa:fa-microchip):::processor
      PRO3(resource<br>fa:fa-microchip<br>add_mode):::processor
      EXP1(&ensp;debug&ensp;<br>fa:fa-upload):::exporter
    %% Links
    subID1:::sub-traces
    subgraph " "
      subgraph subID1[**Traces/Metrics/Logs**]
      direction LR
      REC1 --> PRO1
      PRO1 --> PRO2
      PRO2 --> PRO3
      PRO3 --> EXP1
      end
    end
classDef receiver,exporter fill:#8b5cf6,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#fff;
classDef processor fill:#6366f1,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#fff;
classDef con-receive,con-export fill:#45c175,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#fff;
classDef sub-traces stroke:#fff,stroke-width:1px, color:#fff,stroke-dasharray: 3 3;
```

{{% /notice %}}

---

## Load Generation Tool

For this workshop we have specifically developed a `loadgen` tool. `loadgen` is a flexible load generator for simulating traces and logging activities. It supports base, health, and security traces by default, along with optional logging of random quotes to a file, either in plain text or JSON format.

The output generated by `loadgen` mimic those produced by an OpenTelemetry instrumentation library, allowing us to test the Collector’s processing logic and offers a simple yet powerful way to mimic real-world scenarios.
